Hi, my name is Ryan Etheridge, and you are listening to our podcast series focused around the gospel of Christ according to Matthew.
Today's date is Thursday, February 19th, and our scripture focus is going to be on Matthew chapter 16.
Due to the length of this passage, I'm not going to be reading it in its entirety, but I will summarize most of the verses. But if you haven't yet read it, I encourage you to pause for a few
As for a few moments, read through chapter 16 and then continue this podcast.
So in the beginning of our passage today, in verse 1 through 4, that's where we see a scene where the religious leaders of the time demand
Demand a miraculous sign from Jesus. And I love this because there's a small little part in here where Jesus replies, you know, when evening comes,
Evening comes, you say, it will be fair weather, for the sky is red, and in the morning you say, today it will be stormy, for the sky is red and overcast. And he goes on to talk about
I talk about how they know how to interpret the weather, but they can't interpret the sign of the times. And for me living in the South, I've always heard that as I thought it was kind of a wives tale, but it's interesting.
It's interesting to see it mentioned here by Jesus verbatim. And he's speaking once again to a people that, well,
would have traveled by ship and would have lived by the sea. So he's using analogies that fit them. I'm used to hearing it saying as red sky at night sailors deny.
1. There is delight.
Red sky in the morning, sailors take warning, which is not always true, but it's a good way to stay safe on the seas or if you're traveling by boat.
And so in this section here, Jesus doesn't just perform a miracle on demand because someone asks for it.
And I think that Jesus didn't feel the need to prove anything to the religious leaders because
He knew that their hearts were already hardened towards receiving or accepting the truth of who Christ was to begin with.
Now, Jesus sort of carries on to use that encounter with the religious leaders to teach a lesson to his disciples that we see in verse 5 through 12.
It is a very interesting passage in the book of Genesis. It's a very interesting passage in Genesis.
The disciples were not accurately.
Um, reading between the lines when Jesus was telling them to beware of the yeast of the Pharisees.
Christ was warning them to beware of their deceptive teachings, right? He wasn't talking about real bread or real yeast, but saying, beware of their deceptive teachings.
deceptive teachings, which, you know,
If accepted, could permeate into others belief system, like the little amount of yeast that is used in a batch of dough that.
Eventually spreads into the entire thing.
Now, for the meat of today's episode, I want us to mainly focus on verses 13 through 28.
and this is the scene where we sort of get a double glimpse at the relationship between simon peter and jesus and a little side note um.
Um, Pastor Levi conveniently spoke about this this past Sunday during his sermon as he was speaking about spiritual gifts as it pertains to the spiritual
spiritual gift, which is the discernment of spirits. And go back and look at the sermon if you haven't. It's about middle way 30 days.
way through where he mentions this, you might glean something fresh from it. But he
In this
verse here starting with verse 13.
First,
Peter is acknowledged as blessed because he was correctly able to answer Jesus's question to the disciples when he asked them.
Who do the people say that I am?
To which Peter was able to reply with You are the Messiah, the son of the living God.
And Christ then goes on to talk about how
Peter will represent the rock of the church on which the entire structure would be built upon.
Now, interestingly, Christ also goes on to say to Peter in verse 19,
And I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven.
wow I don't know
And I wonder how some of the other disciples would have felt hearing this. We know that there's already some conversations about jealousy. Who would say,
who would sit at the right hand, who would sit at the left hand in the kingdom of heaven, right? So some were probably a bit envious or jealous, maybe some confused by the words of Jesus.
100% of Jesus. And there might have been some who even agreed that Peter would have been the right man for the job. Yeah.
Now,
Hold on to that thought as we currently are holding Peter up on this pedestal of sorts.
Because,
Immediately following this encounter
We see starting in verse 21 that
Jesus predicts his death, and here he begins to speak plainly to the disciples about "what is this?"
What must happen when he goes to Jerusalem? How he must suffer terrible things at the hands of the elders, the teachers and the leaders of the religious law will all mock.
Amok him, how he would be killed, but on the third day he will be resurrected. 1 Samuel 18, 1-
Jesus is no longer parsing words or
Speaking in analogies or parables or using symbolic language to his disciples.
Right. He is being blunt with them who, let's remember, these aren't just students or understudies of Jesus anymore, right? But they've become his true companions.
And his confidence throughout his ministry.
He is being honest with his friends.
About what is coming down the pipe.
Not just for Jesus himself,
But also for them too because they're going to be tasked with
Carrying on the gospel with carrying on, and and really laying down the foundation for the early faith of Christianity.
So this is where we see a flipped side of the relationship between Peter and Jesus. And I think this is also where
I think we really get to see the human nature of Peter that we can all relate to if we were in that same position in a way.
being so close to Jesus. So,
Now I do want to read for you, starting with verse 22 through 28 of Matthew chapter 16.
Peter took him aside and began to rebuke Jesus. Never, Lord, he said, this shall never happen to you, speaking about Jesus's death.
Jesus turned and said to Peter,
"'Get behind me, Satan. You are a stumbling block to me.'
You do not have in mind the concerns of God, but merely human concerns.
Then Jesus said to his disciples,
Whoever wants to be my disciple must deny themselves and take up their cross and follow me.
For whoever wants to receive their life will lose it.
"'But whoever loses their life for me will find it.'"
What good will it be for someone to gain the whole world, yet forfeit their soul?
And what can anyone give in exchange for their soul?
For the son of Man is going to come in the Father's glory with his angels.
And then he will reward each person according to what they have done.
Truly, I tell you, some who are standing here will not taste death before the Son of Man coming into his kingdom.
So in this passage here, the the warning is is stark from Jesus.
We must always remember to
Check ourselves, right? because we don't have the full scope. we don't have the full game plan. we don't see the full picture that.
That God has access to.
That's hard, okay?
We must be patient when it feels like
Our prayers are being ignored, or when it feels like the answer that we long to receive, the assurance that we're looking for is being delayed indefinitely.
This also points us to the
The realization that we must stay connected and rooted in God's word as God commanded Joshua in Joshua 1, verse 8.
Where he says, continuously study God's word. Meditate on it day and night. Right.
So that you may be careful to obey everything written in it.
Right? We will never fully be able to see things as God sees them, right? We will always be human. But... Right?
Through consistent, through lifelong study of the scriptures, and constantly going back and applying it to our lives, then we can at least.
At the very least, be certain we know what God's truth is so that we can have the best discernment possible in all we do and with
And with everyone we encounter.
And lastly, the second warning from Christ in this passage that I think we must all be conscious of as it pertains both to our lives, but also the lives of
is of our loved ones around us, is what he says in verse 26, where he says, What good is it for someone to gain the whole world, yet lose?
lose their soul.
Now, there are always going to be distractions that try to pull us away from our devotion and commitments to Christ.
There will always be things that seem more urgent and pressing in our life compared to the practices that we do that may seem monotonous sometimes, such as.
100% such as that the daily study or prayer or continued attendance, whatever it might be.
Maybe it's in our career, our pursuit of wealth.
Maybe it's in our relationships or our status and how others view us.
Whatever it might be,
Each of us has something that we desire, which, if given the opportunity, could easily derail us, or at least extremely distract us from.
From our commitment to Christ and what his call is on our lives.
That is why it is so important that we always look at ourselves in a mirror of honesty that is rooted in biblical character.
But also,
why we need to be part of a faith-based community, right? So it's important that
We're honest with ourselves.
But like I said, this is so important as to why we should be part of a faith-based community of brothers and sisters that we can that can walk alongside us in tough times.
Tough times, but... Yeah.
Also can be honest and blunt with us in the same way that Christ was honest with his disciples in today's passage.
One of my favorite proverbs, Proverbs 27:17.
As iron sharpens iron.
So a friend sharpens another.
And that proverb speaks directly to this mutual accountability that we should all treasure, whether that be through a friend, maybe that's through
That's through our spouse or our husband or our wife. Maybe it's some other family member or mentor in our lives. But that's something to be treasured and don't take it for granted.
Sometimes that means they're going to tell us things that are hard to hear, but if we're honest with ourselves, then we'll know we should receive that correction or that rebuke.
buking from a place of love, just like we know Peter would have received it from Christ when he said, turn, Peter, you're not seeing things straight.
You're not seeing them as God sees them. I need you to get behind me. I've got something I need to do. Trust me in this, right?
I think oftentimes as seasoned or new Christians, it is easy for us to take for granted and abuse the grace or mercy that comes.
comes from salvation in Christ.
We think that our sin is less heavy than someone else commits the same wrongdoing, but has not yet accepted Christ.
And although there may be
Some bit of truth to that, in a way, that's not the point I'm trying to get at.
The point I'm trying to make is that just because we are living as a saved people, just because we say that we've accepted Christ into our heart, redeemed through the sacrament,
Sacrifice made on the cross.
Then we need to remember that.
Each of us one day will give an account.
For the actions and choices of our lives.
Also, we will have to give an account for the things that we chose not to do as well, something to consider.
Now, that is a painful reality sometimes, but,
And it's a good reminder. It's a healthy thing to remember because it reminds us why we need Christ in our lives to begin with and why we need to daily
Bailey
Choose to deny ourselves and daily.
Take up the cross to follow Jesus.
I hope this podcast reading has been a blessing to you, as it has been to me. And remember, be grateful today and every day, for all of us have something to be thankful for.
Thank you for listening to this podcast focused around the book of Matthew.
Produced by the always calm, cool and collected Kenny Stewart.
From the beautiful Perdido Bay Methodist Church, we hope you have a great day.